So I really like LevelDB for
a number of reasons.
It's not really as good of a database for
kind of boring purposes,
like crud apps and things.
Just whatever,
use a relational database for that.
What LevelDB is really good for is for
being a modular database where you can
kinda layer on different abstractions.
So if you wanna publish packages to NPM,
if you wanna have strange experiments.
Also if you wanna run
your abstractions and
if you wanna run your applications
in the browser as well as a node,
LevelDB is almost the only
game in town for doing that.
So I think it's really worth knowing.
I mean, not that a whole lot of people use
LevelDB in the browser, for some reason.
It's a fantastic way to do it.
So LevelDB is embedded, which means
that it exists in the same process.
So if you've ever used
something like SQLite or
Berkeley DB,
these are also embedded databases.
So it's not a daemon that you run.
It's not like my SQL D where you
connect to it over a socket.
LevelDB just lives in your program.
This is partly because
LevelDB was build for
Chrome by some of the same people
who wrote Google Bigtable.
And that host arc will come
full circle when we start using
LevelDB in the browser
on top of IndexedDB.
Because IndexedDB is a very awkward API,
and the LevelDB API is very nice.
So just take what was originally LevelDB
inside of Chrome and you can wrap it.
Well, then it gives you IndexedDB,
but then you can wrap it so
that you're back at the LevelDB API.
Because it's very nice and simple,
and you can do pretty much
anything that you would need to
do with this kind of a database.
All right, so if you haven't yet, run the
package JSON in the workshop directory.
You can also install
LevelDB by doing this,
which will give you the node package for
LevelDB.
The interface that you
get is called LevelUp.
So if you want to read about that
documentation as we go along,
you can pull up the readme for the package
called LevelUp, one word, on NPM.
This will probably compile some things, or
pull down some pre-built packages,
if your system is supported.
So it could take a little
while to install.
But then, once you've done that,
this is all of the setup that you
need to have in your database.
So whatever that DB is going to be
created on disk if it doesn't exist.
If it does exist, it'll just be used.
So I can show you what
that looks like here.
So I'll just hop into the node REPL.
We can require('level').
And now we can create a new database
instance by just doing level and
giving level, And giving level a string.
And the string is going to be
a directory on your file system
that will be created if it doesn't exist.
So if I see now, I've got a new
directory called test-foo.db.
It's got a lot of odd stuff in it,
that's okay.
You don't have to know what
any of this means, I don't.
But you shouldn't touch any of this
because it's kind of important for
how LeveDB works.
So now that we have a database handle,
we can start to do some things.
You can also configure LevelDB
with this option, valuingEncoding.
You can create your own valueEncodings,
or there's one built in called JSON.
So if you like to store JSON values
instead of just binary blocks,
you can do that.
It's handy for,
I'd say more often than not,
I use valueEncoding of JSON
when I'm dealing with LevelDB.
I mentioned these already, but
everything that we're gonna be
doing with LevelDB, you can run all
of this code in the browser as well.
And I'll get more into how to do that.
But basically, if you swap require
level for require level-browserify,
you'll get a shim that's built on
top of IndexedDB in the browser.
So everything that we're gonna do,
you can also do in the browser.
But just due it in node first
because node is way easier to
muck around with than the browser,
which is very complicated.
Also, if you have data that doesn't really
fit very well into the kind of relational
style, or maybe you just have a different
approach to how you like to build stuff,
LevelDB is good for
that because you get some low level
primitives and then you're on your own.
So you can pick and choose abstractions,
or you can build your own.
You don't have to kind of put your put
your application into this normal form or
anything like that.
You can just do whatever you want.
It's also really good for building
these things called cap architectures,
which are log based.
They use logs as a source of truth and
build indexes called materialized
views on top of those logs.
It's sort of old enterprise
architecture that just so
happens to be really useful for
building peer-to-peer systems as well.
Which is why I find them very interesting,
cuz I do that a lot.
Because then you don't
even need a data center.
You don't even need servers of any sort.
You can just use people's browsers on
a phone or something to get a lot done.